notes/questions.md, before:

# Footloop pipeline questions

## `footLoop.pl`

### General questions

- What should be included in the `-i` (index argument)?
  - Seems like just a bed6 file with gene annotations for the "genome" you are
    mapping to. For simulated reads just generating a dummy gene that spans the
    length of the chromosome.
- What is `-l` (label) used for?

### Errors

- Running bismark is successful and seems like all output is being generated. Output of `tree -a`
  in the output directory below.
  ```

    ├── BED-c0-3.bed_0_0_bp.bed
    ├── .bismark_log
    ├── .geneIndex
    │   └── a0a5052043f6c374eed31d7f6ca449b4
    │       ├── BED-c0-3.bed_0_0_bp.bed.fa
    │       ├── .BED-c0-3.bed_0_0_bp.bed.fa.md5
    │       ├── Bisulfite_Genome
    │       │   ├── CT_conversion
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.2.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.3.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.4.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.rev.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.rev.2.bt2
    │       │   │   └── genome_mfa.CT_conversion.fa
    │       │   ├── GA_conversion
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.2.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.3.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.4.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.rev.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.rev.2.bt2
    │       │   │   └── genome_mfa.GA_conversion.fa
    │       │   └── .md5sum
    │       └── LOG.txt
    ├── .LABEL
    ├── logFile.txt
    ├── .PARAMS
    ├── READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2.bam
    └── READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2_SE_report.txt
    ```

    However getting error `Failed to read from /home/ethollem/projects/snakeFeet/output/simulated/mappedReads/MAPPED-c0-3/READS-c0-3.fastq_bismark_bt2_SE_report.txt:`. This file does in fact *not* exist.
    However there is a very similarly named file `READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2_SE_report.txt` only
    differing by the absence of the `.fastq` file extension. Is this getting left
    on the path for some reason?
    Looking more carefully we see that the output file that the program specifies when it says "success"
    `Output /home/ethollem/projects/snakeFeet/output/simulated/mappedReads/MAPPED-c0-3/READS-c0-3.fastq_bismark_bt2.bam`
    Does not actually exist in the output directory. Instead the most similar file is 
    `READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2.bam` which does not have the fastq extension included.
    - Solution: in the subroutine `run_bismark` the line `$mybam =~ s/.fq.gz_bismark_bt2/_bismark_bt2/;`
    is used to define a filepath relating to bismark output file that must be read by the program. If
    your reads do not have the exact file extension `.fq.gz` the script will be unable to find
    the output file even if it is produced.

Commit message:

update notes on sample label requirements

notes/questions.md, after:

# Footloop pipeline questions

## `footLoop.pl`

### General questions

- What should be included in the `-i` (index argument)?
  - Seems like just a bed6 file with gene annotations for the "genome" you are
    mapping to. For simulated reads just generating a dummy gene that spans the
    length of the chromosome.
- What is `-l` (label) used for?
  - So it turns out the label is actually very important in this pipeline even though this
    is not documented in the README. After getting errors when running `footPeak.pl` I started
    digging through the code and found this line
    ```
    	if (not defined $label or (defined $label and $label !~ /PCB/i)) {
		die "Please make sure your output folder (-o) contain PCB(number) e.g. PCB12: 180202_PCB12_footpeak_output (no space/dash between PCB and number)\n\n";
	}
    ```
    This if statement was not invoked even though my filepaths did not include the label
    and did include dashes. Will have to go back and update labels and such in order
    to be up to this requirement. The label itself must have the format `PCB\d+`.

### Errors

- Running bismark is successful and seems like all output is being generated. Output of `tree -a`
  in the output directory below.
  ```

    ├── BED-c0-3.bed_0_0_bp.bed
    ├── .bismark_log
    ├── .geneIndex
    │   └── a0a5052043f6c374eed31d7f6ca449b4
    │       ├── BED-c0-3.bed_0_0_bp.bed.fa
    │       ├── .BED-c0-3.bed_0_0_bp.bed.fa.md5
    │       ├── Bisulfite_Genome
    │       │   ├── CT_conversion
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.2.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.3.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.4.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.rev.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_CT.rev.2.bt2
    │       │   │   └── genome_mfa.CT_conversion.fa
    │       │   ├── GA_conversion
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.2.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.3.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.4.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.rev.1.bt2
    │       │   │   ├── BS_GA.rev.2.bt2
    │       │   │   └── genome_mfa.GA_conversion.fa
    │       │   └── .md5sum
    │       └── LOG.txt
    ├── .LABEL
    ├── logFile.txt
    ├── .PARAMS
    ├── READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2.bam
    └── READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2_SE_report.txt
    ```

    However getting error `Failed to read from /home/ethollem/projects/snakeFeet/output/simulated/mappedReads/MAPPED-c0-3/READS-c0-3.fastq_bismark_bt2_SE_report.txt:`. This file does in fact *not* exist.
    However there is a very similarly named file `READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2_SE_report.txt` only
    differing by the absence of the `.fastq` file extension. Is this getting left
    on the path for some reason?
    Looking more carefully we see that the output file that the program specifies when it says "success"
    `Output /home/ethollem/projects/snakeFeet/output/simulated/mappedReads/MAPPED-c0-3/READS-c0-3.fastq_bismark_bt2.bam`
    Does not actually exist in the output directory. Instead the most similar file is 
    `READS-c0-3_bismark_bt2.bam` which does not have the fastq extension included.
    - Solution: in the subroutine `run_bismark` the line `$mybam =~ s/.fq.gz_bismark_bt2/_bismark_bt2/;`
    is used to define a filepath relating to bismark output file that must be read by the program. If
    your reads do not have the exact file extension `.fq.gz` the script will be unable to find
    the output file even if it is produced.
